---
layout: index
title: Galway 5km series
permalink: index.html
---

Updates
-------

Series entry will on Thursday the 13th of March, starting at 8:00pm.

Series entry will cost €30.

A short launch event for this year’s Galway 5km Series will take place on Thursday the 6th of March in the New Health Centre in Athenry at 7:00pm.  
On the evening we’ll be joined by three special guests representing three generations of  Galway Athletics - past, present and future.

The Galway Series occupies a special place in the hearts of many club runners and it will be nice to look forward to the races we’ll have this year in good company.

There’ll be a coffee and buns and a few short words. The event will last just 30 minutes, but we’d greatly appreciate the attendance of representatives of all of the Galway.

Why not come along in your training gear and get a short run in afterwards?

About the race series
---------------------

The County Galway 5km series is an initative of the Galway Athletic Clubs. Over 6 Tuesday nights, a 5km race is organised by one of the athletic clubs across the county. The format is simple - one race number covers the entire series. No prizes are awarded, but anyone who completes 4 of the 6 races gets a souvenir race t-shirt. After the last race, a social night is organised by the final host club.

The series has exploded in popularity over the years, to the point where entry sells out in a matter of minutes.

All proceed of the 5k series goes to fund juvenile and adult athletics in Galway.

*Please car pool to venues - parking is strictly limited at all venues!*
